**Pseudo Random Number Driver (SystemVerilog Module)**  
written by Paul Hummel

The pseudo-random number generator (PRNG) is created as a linear shift register designed to have the maximum length between repeating values. ([https://docs.amd.com/v/u/en-US/xapp210](https://docs.amd.com/v/u/en-US/xapp210)) The PRNG will create a stream of random bit values. The only input signals needed for the PRNG are a clock which can be 100 MHz or 50 MHz and a reset which can be the same reset input into the OTTER. The PRNG will output a new pseudo-random 32-bit value on every clock cycle which can be connected as input into the OTTER.

Unfortunately, since the hardware uses a hardcoded start value (seed value), it will produce the same “random” value on the same clock edge after a reset. This means that if your program always grabs a random number after the same 20 instructions (so 40 clock cycles), the “random” value will always be the same. To create randomness, the program will have to use a random time. The easiest way to do this is to create a startup screen. When the program runs it will perform this startup (maybe display something on the LEDs, VGA, 7 Segment) and then wait for the user to press a button. When the user presses a button to start, the program can grab a random value from the PRNG. Because it is unlikely the user will press the button at the same time after starting the program, the random value will be different each time. From there the sequence, even if it is the same number of clock cycles between each subsequent read from the PRNG will appear random. 